README.md, before:

# JavaFXLibrary

[Robot Framework](http://robotframework.org) library for testing and connecting to a JavaFX java process and using [TestFX](https://github.com/TestFX/TestFX).

This library allows you to use robot/pybot (Python version of Robot Framework) to run test cases over remote library interface although it also works if you are running with jybot (Jython version of Robot Framework). This means that you can use your other pure Python libraries in your test cases that will not work when runnin with Jython.

JavaFXLibrary is tested to work with Robot Framework 3.0.2 or later.

You can connect to applications running on your local machine or even on a different machine.


## Keyword documentation
See keyword [documentation](https://eficode.github.io/JavaFXLibrary/javafxlibrary.html).

## Installation

1. Download latest JavaFXLibrary and documentation from https://github.com/robotframework/JavaFXLibrary/releases/
2. Copy(if needed) JAR to desired location and run from command line using
    ```
    java -jar javafxlibrary-<version>.jar

    ```
3. JavaFXLibrary in RemoteServer mode should now be running in port [8270](http://localhost:8270)
4. Optionally JAR can be launched with port number as an optional argument:
    ```
    java -jar javafxlibrary-<version>.jar 1234
    ```
5. JavaFXLibrary in RemoteServer mode should now be running in port [1234](http://localhost:1234)

## Usage in Robot suite settings

Import the library:
```
***Settings***
Library    Remote    http://localhost:8270/    WITH NAME    JavaFXLibrary
```
Now the keywords can be used as usual:
```
Launch Javafx Application    javafxlibrary.testapps.TestClickRobot
```

In case of duplicate keywords(multiple keywords found with same name) use e.g. `JavaFXLibrary.'Keyword Name'` to get rid of warnings.

## Using multiple remote libraries

If you need to use the Remote library multiple times in a test suite, or just want to give it a more descriptive name, you can import it using the WITH NAME syntax.
```
***Settings***
Library    Remote    http://localhost:8270/    WITH NAME    client1
Library    Remote    http://localhost:8272/    WITH NAME    client2
```

Now the keywords can be used as `client1.List Windows` and `client2.List Windows`

## JavaFX UI objects

With [Scenic View](http://fxexperience.com/scenic-view/) you can see all your JavaFX applications UI objects.
See [keyword documentation](#keyword-documentation) for additional info how to use them with keywords.

## JavaFXLibrary demo

This can be also used as JavaFXLibrary demo.

Generic way with Maven (in repository root):
```
mvn verify
```

Windows command line:
```
java -cp "target\javafxlibrary-<version>.jar"  org.robotframework.RobotFramework --include smoke src\test\robotframework/
```

Linux/OSX command line:
```
java -cp "target/javafxlibrary-<version>.jar"  org.robotframework.RobotFramework --include smoke src/test/robotframework/

```

## Remote library demo with Docker
### Requirements:
* VNC viewer e.g. https://www.realvnc.com/en/connect/download/viewer/
* Docker CE: https://docs.docker.com/install/
* Docker-compose: https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/
* VNC port: vnc://localhost:5900

### Running the demo with testing env
1. Build & Start Dockerized Environment: `docker-compose up -d robot-framework javafxcompile`
2. Take VNC connection to: <i>vnc://<docker_daemon_ip>:5900</i>
3. Password is: 1234
4. Open shell by right clicking in VNC desktop and selecting Applications > Shells > Bash
5. Execute tests: `test.sh`

FYI:
Single testcase execution in locale and remote (replace spaces with _ ):<br>
`test.sh all '--include tag_name' '-t test_case_name'`<br>
Single suite execution in locale and remote (replace spaces with _ ):<br>
`test.sh all '--include tag_name' '-s suite_name'`
<br>
NOTE: smoke tag is default included.

Commit message:

Taked noVNC to use, just browser needed to remote desctop connection

README.md, after:

# JavaFXLibrary

[Robot Framework](http://robotframework.org) library for testing and connecting to a JavaFX java process and using [TestFX](https://github.com/TestFX/TestFX).

This library allows you to use robot/pybot (Python version of Robot Framework) to run test cases over remote library interface although it also works if you are running with jybot (Jython version of Robot Framework). This means that you can use your other pure Python libraries in your test cases that will not work when runnin with Jython.

JavaFXLibrary is tested to work with Robot Framework 3.0.2 or later.

You can connect to applications running on your local machine or even on a different machine.


## Keyword documentation
See keyword [documentation](https://eficode.github.io/JavaFXLibrary/javafxlibrary.html).

## Installation

1. Download latest JavaFXLibrary and documentation from https://github.com/robotframework/JavaFXLibrary/releases/
2. Copy(if needed) JAR to desired location and run from command line using
    ```
    java -jar javafxlibrary-<version>.jar

    ```
3. JavaFXLibrary in RemoteServer mode should now be running in port [8270](http://localhost:8270)
4. Optionally JAR can be launched with port number as an optional argument:
    ```
    java -jar javafxlibrary-<version>.jar 1234
    ```
5. JavaFXLibrary in RemoteServer mode should now be running in port [1234](http://localhost:1234)

## Usage in Robot suite settings

Import the library:
```
***Settings***
Library    Remote    http://localhost:8270/    WITH NAME    JavaFXLibrary
```
Now the keywords can be used as usual:
```
Launch Javafx Application    javafxlibrary.testapps.TestClickRobot
```

In case of duplicate keywords(multiple keywords found with same name) use e.g. `JavaFXLibrary.'Keyword Name'` to get rid of warnings.

## Using multiple remote libraries

If you need to use the Remote library multiple times in a test suite, or just want to give it a more descriptive name, you can import it using the WITH NAME syntax.
```
***Settings***
Library    Remote    http://localhost:8270/    WITH NAME    client1
Library    Remote    http://localhost:8272/    WITH NAME    client2
```

Now the keywords can be used as `client1.List Windows` and `client2.List Windows`

## JavaFX UI objects

With [Scenic View](http://fxexperience.com/scenic-view/) you can see all your JavaFX applications UI objects.
See [keyword documentation](#keyword-documentation) for additional info how to use them with keywords.

## JavaFXLibrary demo

This can be also used as JavaFXLibrary demo.

Generic way with Maven (in repository root):
```
mvn verify
```

Windows command line:
```
java -cp "target\javafxlibrary-<version>.jar"  org.robotframework.RobotFramework --include smoke src\test\robotframework/
```

Linux/OSX command line:
```
java -cp "target/javafxlibrary-<version>.jar"  org.robotframework.RobotFramework --include smoke src/test/robotframework/

```

## Remote library demo with Docker
### Requirements:
* Docker CE: https://docs.docker.com/install/
* Docker-compose: https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/
* Port 80 is free in your machine

### Running the demo with testing env
1. Build & Start Dockerized Environment: `docker-compose up -d robot-framework javafxcompile`
2. Open browser to <docker_daemon_ip>
3. Open xterm from start menu > System tools > xterm
4. Execute tests in xterm window: `test.sh`

FYI:
Single testcase execution in locale|remote|all (replace spaces in testcase name with _ ):<br>
`test.sh locale '--include tag_name' '-t test_case_name'`<br>
Single suite execution in locale and remote (replace spacesin test suite name with _ ):<br>
`test.sh remote '--include tag_name' '-s suite_name'`
<br>
NOTE: smoke tag is default included.
